# Making a complete software product

In this article we'll see how a product like [TODO Product: Uber, Voi, restaurant ordering system...] could be made.

- Ideas
  - Foodora
  - Uber
  - Voi
  - Restaurant order service
  - Hotel/flight booking
    - Camping booking?
  - ~Snapchat/Insta~ ingen admin..
  - Taxi booking


Taxi booking
- Req
  - Login
  - Request (time, place)
  - Dispatch (confirm)
  - Tracking


## Divide and Conquer

So we know there's a lot we need and right now we've got nothing.
The most obvious one is something for the end user to interact with, an interface.
Furthermore, since we need more than locally stored data, such as a calculator, we need some storage and a way to communicate with it.

## User Interface

What users see instead of endless spreadsheets.

### Customer Interface

The user interface should be available for the customers in a simple and non-frustrating way.
We'll have to consider whether a website is good enough or maybe we should create an app to cause persistance and repeat purchase.
In our use case, we want push notifications and GPS support, so we'll go with an app.

There are many tools to create mobile apps:

- Native app development
  - iOS using the languages Swift or Objective-C
  - Android using the languages Java or Kotlin
- Cross-platform technologies
  - React Native
  - Xamarin
  - Flutter

Using the native tools could yield better performance, battery life, features, but requires you to develop the same application twice if you want to cover both Android and iOS users.

### Admin Panel

Administration of the bookings and such is a relatively advanced task and is not suitable for a mobile device, especially if management is a full-time job.
Therefore, this should be designed for desktop use, and since we don't know if the business is using Mac or PC, the safest bet is to use a web page solution.

- Web
  - Vue
  - Svelte
  - React
  - Angular
- Desktop application
  - Outdated..
  - 

## Backend Behind the Scenes

The user interfaces would be empty shells without data or any way to retrieve it.
And in the same way we distributed responsibilities between the customer and admin user interfaces, we'll do for the backend.



```
code...
```